.TH BETTERHOOK 1 "2026-04-11" "betterhook 0.0.1" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
betterhook \- memory-efficient, worktree-native git hooks manager
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B betterhook
.I subcommand
[\fIoptions\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B betterhook
is a git hooks manager built for the workflow where multiple AI
coding agents run in parallel via git worktrees. One wrapper script
installed once into the shared
.I .git/hooks/
dir dispatches at runtime to each worktree's own
.I betterhook.toml
(or .yml / .json), so every worktree runs its own config.
.SH SUBCOMMANDS
.TP
.B init
Write a starter
.I betterhook.toml
in the current directory.
.TP
.B install
Install worktree\-aware hook wrappers into the shared
.I .git/hooks/
dir. Accepts
.B \-\-takeover
to unset a pre\-existing foreign
.I core.hooksPath
and
.B \-\-hook
to restrict which hooks to install.
.TP
.B uninstall
Remove only hook wrappers whose SHA\-256 matches what betterhook
wrote. User\-edited hooks are never touched.
.TP
.B status
Print a JSON snapshot of installed hooks, resolved config, and
worktree identity. Intended for agent introspection.
.TP
.B run \fIhook\fR
Run a hook directly.
.B \-\-dry\-run
prints the plan without executing.
.B \-\-json
emits NDJSON events instead of TTY output.
.B \-\-skip / \-\-only
filter individual jobs.
.TP
.B explain \fI\-\-hook name \-\-job name\fR
Print a JSON breakdown of a single job's resolved command, glob,
env, timeout, and isolate key without running it.
.TP
.B fix \fI[\-\-hook name]\fR
Run every job's \fBfix\fR = ... variant. Agents use this after a
failed formatter hook to self\-correct.
.TP
.B migrate \fI\-\-from lefthook.yml\fR
Best\-effort convert a lefthook config to
.I betterhook.toml
and write a
.I BETTERHOOK_MIGRATION_NOTES.md
alongside.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B BETTERHOOK_SKIP
Comma\-separated job names to skip.
.TP
.B BETTERHOOK_ONLY
Comma\-separated allowlist of job names to run.
.TP
.B BETTERHOOK_NO_LOCKS
Bypass the coordinator daemon and file\-lock fallback.
.TP
.B BETTERHOOK_DAEMON_SOCK
Explicit daemon socket path (skips discovery + spawn).
.SH EXIT CODES
.TP
.B 0
all jobs ok
.TP
.B 1
at least one job failed
.TP
.B 2
config parse/schema error
.TP
.B 3
lock acquisition timeout
.TP
.B 4
git error (stash pop conflict, unexpected git failure)
.TP
.B 5
install/uninstall error
.TP
.B 64
usage error (from clap)
.TP
.B 124
per\-job timeout expired (matches GNU timeout(1))
.TP
.B 130
interrupted (SIGINT)
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR githooks (5),
.BR git-worktree (1)
.SH BUGS
https://github.com/leonardomso/betterhook/issues
